README.md, before:

freud.js
====
----

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jarofghosts/freud.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jarofghosts/freud)

Freud watches directories and copies files between them. It allows you to modify the file information before rendering using callbacks attached to file extensions.

Err that's confusing, here:

### example ###

```js
var Freud = require('freud').Freud,
  freud = new Freud('/home/me/src', '/home/me/html'),
  md = require('md');

freud.listen('md', function (file) {
  file.data = md(file.data);
  file.name = file.name.replace(/\.md$/, '.html');
  return file;
});

freud.go();
```

That will watch `/home/me/src` for changes to files with the `.md` extension. When there is one, it will run the file contents through `md`, our theoretical Markdown processor, and change the extension to `.html` before dumping the mutated file into `/home/me/html`. Of course the origin file is never modified in any way.

Listen also accepts '\*:before' and '\*:after' to apply to all processed files. You can probably guess when they occur. If you add a listener with '\*', it will be pushed onto the \*:before stack. In addition, '/\*:before' and '/\*:after' can be used to apply to directories, also defaults to before.

The file object available within your listen statements is of structure:
```js
{
  "name": "example.txt",
  "stats": (node fs.Stats object),
  "data": "the file contents",
  "write": true
}
```

If the `file.write` property is set to `false` and never reset to `true` at any point in the chain of transformations, Freud will **not** write it to the target directory.

The directory object is similar, only without the data attribute. Again, setting `write` to `false` will prevent it from being written to the target.

*Note:* Freud does **not** watch sub-directories. In order to effectively monitor multiple directories, you will need to construct multiple Freud objects.

----

### options ###

Freud also accepts an optional third parameter of an options object. The options available are as follows:
* `monitorDot` to watch for dotfile changes, default is `false`
* `monitorSquiggle` to watch for files with names ending with ~, such as are common for backups. Default is `false`

### events ###

Freud will also emit certain events that may be useful, such as:
* `started` when the service begins watching.
* `stopped` when service is stopped (via `freud.stop()`)
* `extensionAdded` whenever a new extension is being listened for.
* `compiling` whenever a valid (ie not blocked by user monitoring options and not a duplicate or temporary file) file change event is caught. The filename will be passed.
* `compiled` after a file has been processed and written to the target directory. The *compiled* filename will be passed.
* `recompiled` after a successful compilation triggered by `freud.recompile(filename)`.
* `blocked` whenever a write to the target has been canceled due to `file.write` being set to `false`.
* `unlinked` when a file has been unlinked due to removal of the file in the source directory.

### license ###

BSD

Commit message:

added array arguments and accompanying test, updated readme.

README.md, after:

freud.js
====

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jarofghosts/freud.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jarofghosts/freud)

Freud watches directories and copies files between them. It allows you to modify the file information before rendering using callbacks attached to file extensions.

Err that's confusing, here:

### example ###

```js
var Freud = require('freud').Freud,
  freud = new Freud('/home/me/src', '/home/me/html'),
  md = require('md');

freud.listen('md', function (file) {
  file.data = md(file.data);
  file.name = file.name.replace(/\.md$/, '.html');
  return file;
});

freud.go();
```

That will watch `/home/me/src` for changes to files with the `.md` extension. When there is one, it will run the file contents through `md`, our theoretical Markdown processor, and change the extension to `.html` before dumping the mutated file into `/home/me/html`. Of course the origin file is never modified in any way.

Listen also accepts '\*:before' and '\*:after' to apply to all processed files. You can probably guess when they occur. If you add a listener with '\*', it will be pushed onto the \*:before stack. In addition, '/\*:before' and '/\*:after' can be used to apply to directories, also defaults to before. Listen *also* accepts an array of extensions to listen for, like:
```js
freud.listen(['md', 'markdown', 'mkd'], parseFileFunction);
```

The file object available within your listen statements is of structure:
```js
{
  "name": "example.txt",
  "stats": (node fs.Stats object),
  "data": "the file contents",
  "write": true
}
```

If the `file.write` property is set to `false` and never reset to `true` at any point in the chain of transformations, Freud will **not** write it to the target directory.

The directory object is similar, only without the data attribute. Again, setting `write` to `false` will prevent it from being written to the target.

*Note:* Freud does **not** watch sub-directories. In order to effectively monitor multiple directories, you will need to construct multiple Freud objects.

----

### options ###

Freud also accepts an optional third parameter of an options object. The options available are as follows:
+ `monitorDot` to watch for dotfile changes, default is `false`
+ `monitorSquiggle` to watch for files with names ending with ~, such as are common for backups. Default is `false`

### events ###

Freud will also emit certain events that may be useful, such as:
+ `started` when the service begins watching.
+ `stopped` when service is stopped (via `freud.stop()`)
+ `extensionAdded` whenever a new extension is being listened for.
+ `compiling` whenever a valid (ie not blocked by user monitoring options and not a duplicate or temporary file) file change event is caught. The filename will be passed.
+ `compiled` after a file has been processed and written to the target directory. The *compiled* filename will be passed.
+ `recompiled` after a successful compilation triggered by `freud.recompile(filename)`.
+ `blocked` whenever a write to the target has been canceled due to `file.write` being set to `false`.
+ `unlinked` when a file has been unlinked due to removal of the file in the source directory.

### license ###

BSD
